Arc-enabled SQL Server Levelup - README File created (#1715)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_sqlsrv/levelup/_index.md

  ```shell
  $subscriptionId = "<Your subscription id>"
  $servicePrincipalName = "<Unique SP Name>"
  az login
  az account set -s $subscriptionId

  az ad sp create-for-rbac -n $servicePrincipalName --role "Owner" --scopes /subscriptions/$subscriptionId
  ```

  > **Note**: If you can’t use Owner role please make sure to assign **Contributor** and User **Access Administrator** roles to the service principal using below commands.

  ```shell
  az ad sp create-for-rbac -n $servicePrincipalName --role "Contributor" --scopes /subscriptions/$subscriptionId
  az ad sp create-for-rbac -n $servicePrincipalName --role "User Access Administrator" --scopes /subscriptions/$subscriptionId
  ```

  Once you run above commands output should look like below.

  ![Create SPN with RBAC](create-spn-with-rbac.png)

7. **Client ID and Secret:** From the output of the last command, make note of the **appId, password, and tenant** values as shown in the screenshot to use in the LevelUp deployment.

## Task 2: Deploy LevelUp lab environment

### (Option 1): Deploy using Azure Portal

> 1. Click on the link below to login to Azure portal and launch ARM template to deploy level up lab environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the link below to log in to the Azure portal and launch the ARM template to deploy the Level-Up lab environment.
```

  [![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmicrosoft%2Fazure_arc%2Flu_arc_sql%2Fazure_jumpstart_arcbox_levelup%2FARM%2Fazuredeploy.json)

2. Fill in the parameter values as shown below and leave other values default, click on Review + create to continue deployment.

  ![Fill in parameters](azure-portal-deployment-params.png)

> 3. Review all the values and click on Create to deploy level up lab environment.
> 
>   ![Create deployment](azure-portal-deployment-create.png)
> 
> 4. This deployment takes around 15 minutes. Monitor deployment progress and make sure deployment is successful. 
> 
>   ![Review deployment progress](azure-portal-deployment-progress.png)
> 
> 5. When deployment is successful click on Go to resource group to add NSG rules to allow RDP access.
> 
>   ![Deployment complete](azure-portal-deployment-complete.png)
> 
> 6. This deployment contains 9 resources including ArcBox-Client VM that will be used as part of the lab modules.
> 
>   ![Deployed resources](azure-portal-deployment-resources.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Review all the values and click on Create to deploy the Level-Up lab environment.

  ![Create deployment](azure-portal-deployment-create.png)

4. This deployment takes around 15 minutes. Monitor deployment progress and make sure deployment is successful. 

  ![Review deployment progress](azure-portal-deployment-progress.png)

5. When the deployment is successful click on Go to resource group to add NSG rules to allow RDP access.

  ![Deployment complete](azure-portal-deployment-complete.png)

6. This deployment contains 9 resources including ArcBox-Client VM that will be used as part of the lab modules.

  ![Deployed resources](azure-portal-deployment-resources.png)
```

### (Option 2): Deploy using Azure CLI

> 1. Open PowerShell window and change directory to **C:\\** and create **ArcSqlLevelup** sub folder and change directory to **C:\ArcSqlLevelup** folder.
> 
> 2. Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository using command below using PowerShell window on your computer or Azure Cloud Shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open PowerShell window and change directory to **C:\\** and create **ArcSqlLevelup** sub folder and change directory to **C:\ArcSqlLevelup** folder.

2. Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository using the command below using either local PowerShell or Azure Cloud Shell.
```

  ```

  ![Git clone Azure Arc repository](git-clone-lu-arc-sql.png)

3. Open **azuredeploy.parameters.json** file located under **C:\ArcSqlLevelup\azure_arc\azure_jumpstart_arcbox_levelup\ARM** folder in a notepad or choice of your editor.

  ![Parameters file location](azure-arm-parameters.png)

4. Update **azuredeploy.parameters.json** parameter file by providing values for the highlighted parameters below.

  ```shell
  {
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentParameters.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "parameters": {
      "spnClientId": {
        "value": "<your service principal client id>"
      },
      "spnClientSecret": {
        "value": "<your service principal secret>"
      },
      "spnTenantId": {
        "value": "<your spn tenant id>"
      },
      "windowsAdminUsername": {
        "value": "arcdemo"
      },
      "windowsAdminPassword": {
        "value": "ArcPassword123!!"
      },
      "logAnalyticsWorkspaceName": {
        "value": "<your unique Log Analytics workspace name>"
      },
      "deployBastion": {
        "value": false
      }
    }
  }
  ```

> 5. Create resource group using command below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create a resource group using the command below.
```

  ```shell
  az group create -n ArcSql-Levelup -l eastus
  ```

  ![Create resource group](azure-arm-group-create.png)

> 6. Deploy ARM template using command below. Please make sure you change the file path in case if you chose different folder for git clone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Deploy the ARM template using the command below. Please make sure you change the file path in case you chose a different folder when cloning the repository.
```

  ```shell
  az deployment group create --resource-group ArcSql-Levelup --template-file "C:\ArcSqlLevelup\azure_arc\azure_jumpstart_arcbox_levelup\ARM\azuredeploy.json" --parameters "C:\ArcSqlLevelup\azure_arc\azure_jumpstart_arcbox_levelup\ARM\azuredeploy.parameters.json"
  ```

  ![Deploy ARM template](azure-arm-group-deploy.png)

> 7. Monitor deployment progress and to go Task 3 once deployment is complete. This deployment takes around 15 minutes to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Monitor deployment progress. Once the deployment is complete continue to Task #3.
```

  ![Monitor ARM deployment progress](azure-arm-group-deployment-complete.png)

  ![Monitor ARM deployment progress](azure-arm-group-deployment-complete-2.png)

## Task 3: Setup RDP Access

> > **Note**: Following steps are not required when using Azure Bastion. Go to Task 4, to continue with the lab instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Following steps are not required when using Azure Bastion. Advanced to Task 4, to continue with the lab instructions.
```

## (Option 1) Allow access to Client VM using your own IP address

Use the following steps if you are not using Just-in-time access. Skip to section “Allow access to Client VM using Just-in-time access:”

> 1. Click on **ArcBox-Client** VM and select **Networking** to add NSG rule to allow RDP access to ArcBox-Client VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **ArcBox-Client** VM and select **Networking** to add the NSG rule to allow RDP access to the _ArcBox-Client_ VM.
```

  ![Client VM Networking](arcbox-client-networking.png)

> 2. By default, access to this VM from the Internet is denied to secure access. Click on Add inbound port rule to allow access from your public IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. By default, accessing this VM from the Internet is denied to secure access. Click on "Add inbound port rule" fora allowing access from your public IP address.
```

  ![Client VM Networking default NSG rules](arcbox-client-networking-nsg-rules.png)

3. Select values as shown in the screenshot below to allow access to your IP address and click Add.

  ![Client VM Networking add NSG rule](arcbox-client-networking-add-nsg-rule.png)

> 4. Please make sure this rule is added and looks as shown in screenshot below to avoid any connectivity issues. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Please make sure this rule is added and looks as shown in the screenshot below to avoid any connectivity issues. 
```

  ![Client VM Networking](arcbox-client-networking-nsg-rdp-rule.png)

## (Option 2) Allow access to Client VM using Just-in-time access

1. From the ArcBox-Client VM Overview tab, expand connect and click on RDP.

  ![Client VM Connectivity using JIT](arcbox-client-connect-rdp.png)

> 2. Click on "To improve security, enabled just-in-time access to this VM" as shown in the screenshot below.
> 
>   ![Client VM Connectivity enable JIT](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-jit.png)
> 
> 3. Click on Enabled just-in-time as shown in the screenshot below.
> 
>   ![Client VM Connectivity enable JIT](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-enable-jit.png)
> 
> 4. Once JIT is enabled, go back to the Client VM Overview page, click on RDP under connect to request RDP access. 
> 
> 5. Select My IP and click Request access as shown in the screenshot below.
> 
>   ![Client VM Connectivity request access](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-request-access.png)
> 
> 6. Once access request to approved and completed, click on Download RDP File to connect to the ArcBox-Client VM using RDP.
> 
>   ![Client VM Connectivity download RDP file](arcbox-client-connect-download-rdp-file.png)
> 
> 7. Now, go to Task 4 to login to Client VM to complete the logon script setup remaining lab setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on "To improve security, enabled just-in-time access to this VM" as shown in the screenshot below.

  ![Client VM Connectivity enable JIT](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-jit.png)

3. Click on Enabled just-in-time as shown in the screenshot below.

  ![Client VM Connectivity enable JIT](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-enable-jit.png)

4. Once JIT is enabled, go back to the Client VM Overview page, and click on RDP under connect to request RDP access. 

5. Select My IP and click Request access as shown in the screenshot below.

  ![Client VM Connectivity request access](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-request-access.png)

6. Once the access request is approved and completed, click on Download RDP File to connect to the _ArcBox-Client_ VM using RDP.

  ![Client VM Connectivity download RDP file](arcbox-client-connect-download-rdp-file.png)

7. Now, go to Task 4 to log in to Client VM to complete the logon script and the remaining lab setup.
```

## Task 4: Login to ArcBox-Client

### (Option 1) Using Remote Desktop Client

> 1. Double click on the download ArcBox-Client.rdp file in your download folder
> 
>   ![Open RDP file](rdp-file.png)
> 
> 2. Access warning and click on Connect.
> 
>   ![Accept access warning](arcbox-client-rdp-file-connect.png)
> 
> 3. Enter username and password specified in your template parameter or use following default credentials filled in by the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Double-click on the download _ArcBox-Client.rdp_ file in your download folder

  ![Open RDP file](rdp-file.png)

2. Access the warning and click on Connect.

  ![Accept access warning](arcbox-client-rdp-file-connect.png)

3. Enter the username and password specified in your template parameter or use the following default credentials filled in by the template.
```

  ```shell
  Username: arcdemo
  Password: ArcPassword123!!
  ```

![Enter credentials](rdp-credentials.png)

4. Click Yes to accept the warning and continue login.

  ![Accept access warning](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-accept-warning.png)

> 5. During the first time logon lab environment setup script will be executed to setup nested Hyper-V guest VMs with different SQL server editions. This process will take around 20 minutes to complete.

Author: I have updated this sentence and committed.

  ![ArcBox client logon script launch](arcbox-client-logn-script-launch.png)

  ![ArcBox client logon script progress](azure-portal-deployment-progress.png)

  ![ArcBox client logon script Arc server onboarding](arcbox-client-logn-script-progress-arc-server.png)

  ![ArcBox client desktop](arcbox-client-desktop.png)

> 6. Once the logon script execution is complete, click on **Hyper-V Manager** icon on the desktop to see nested SQL Server VMs setup for the labs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Once the logon script execution is complete, click on the **Hyper-V Manager** icon on the desktop to see nested SQL Server VMs setup for the labs.
```

  ![ArcBox client logon script complete](arcbox-client-logn-script-complete.png)

### (Option 2) Using Azure Bastion

> 1. In Azure portal, go to ArcSql-Levelup resource group and open ArcBox-Client VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Azure portal, go to _ArcSql-Levelup_ resource group and open _ArcBox-Client_ VM.
```

  ![ArcBox client VM from bastion deployment](arcbox-client-bastion-vm-resource.png)

2. Click on Connect and select Bastion from the drop-down menu.

  ![ArcBox client VM connect using bastion](arcbox-client-select-bastion.png)

3. Enter Username and Password and click on Connect.

  ![ArcBox client VM connect using bastion](arcbox-client-bastion-connect.png)

> 4. This will open new tab, please make sure to accept pop up window warning to successfully log into the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. This will open a new tab, make sure to accept the pop-up window warning to successfully log into the VM.
```

  ![ArcBox client VM bastion allow popup](arcbox-client-bastion-connect-allow-popup.png)

5. Monitor progress and wait for the script execution to finish lab setup.

  ![ArcBox client VM bastion launch logon script](arcbox-client-bastion-logon-script-launch.png)

  ![ArcBox client VM bastion launch logon script](arcbox-client-bastion-logon-script-progress-arc-servers.png)

  ![ArcBox client VM bastion launch logon script](arcbox-client-bastion-desktop.png)

> 6. Once the logon script execution is complete, click on **Hyper-V Manager** icon on the desktop to see nested SQL Server VMs setup for the labs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Once the logon script execution is complete, click on the **Hyper-V Manager** icon on the desktop to see nested SQL Server VMs setup for the labs.
```

5. Select My IP and click Request access as shown in the screenshot below.

  ![Client VM Connectivity request access](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-request-access.png)

6. Once the access request is approved and completed, click on Download RDP File to connect to the _ArcBox-Client_ VM using RDP.

  ![Client VM Connectivity download RDP file](arcbox-client-connect-download-rdp-file.png)

7. Now, go to Task 4 to log in to Client VM to complete the logon script and the remaining lab setup.

## Task 4: Login to ArcBox-Client

### (Option 1) Using Remote Desktop Client

1. Double-click on the download _ArcBox-Client.rdp_ file in your download folder

  ![Open RDP file](rdp-file.png)

2. Access the warning and click on Connect.

  ![Accept access warning](arcbox-client-rdp-file-connect.png)

3. Enter the username and password specified in your template parameter or use the following default credentials filled in by the template.

  ```shell
  Username: arcdemo
  Password: ArcPassword123!!
  ```

![Enter credentials](rdp-credentials.png)

4. Click Yes to accept the warning and continue login.

  ![Accept access warning](arcbox-client-connect-rdp-accept-warning.png)

> 5. During the first time logon to _ArcBox-Client_  VM, lab environment setup script will be executed to setup nested Hyper-V server, guest VMs with different SQL server editions, and onboard 2 of the SQL Server guest VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. During the first time logon to the _ArcBox-Client_ VM, the lab environment setup script will be executed to set up nested Hyper-V server, guest VMs with different SQL server editions, and onboard 2 of the SQL Server guest VMs.
```
